>> Brian Holt: Now we're
gonna go into app.js.
>> Brian Holt: And we're going to import
a API library for reading from Petfinder.
So you're gonna say import pf
from petfinder-client.
Because Parcel is really cool,
it will install that for you.
Full disclaimer, I wrote Petfinder
client for this particular workshop.
So it's optimized for this class.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, there might still
be bugs with it, but I will fix them.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then,
under Imports we're gonna say,
const petfinder equals pf.
So this is going to be giving us
an actual Petfinder API client.
I'm gonna say key is process.env.API_KEY.
>> Brian Holt: And
secret is process.env.API_SECRET.
>> Brian Holt: So this is how you refer to
things that are inside of your .env file.
>> Brian Holt: And Parsel is smart enough
to go and do a fine replace of it.
There's actually a library called
.m that parcel uses to goes and
does a find and replace on these.
>> Brian Holt: So generally, these
Petfinder API keys are actually meant for
node servers.
So they're not generally meant for
client side development work.
So if you actually bundle this out and
put it out in the open web,
people can grab your API keys and
start using them.
But for our example application here,
I think we're fine.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we have Petfinder here,
which is going to be our API client.
>> Brian Holt: What I wanna do is rather
than having this dumb thing that I have to
predefine all the pets,
I'm going to go out to the inter-webs and
grab the latest pets from there, and
then load that into my application, right?
So what I'm going to do here
is I'm going to make it so
that my application is going to render for
the first time by itself, right?
So the user sees something right away, and
then as soon as the application renders,
it's going to go out and make an API
call to get more information, right?
So that's a big key here is you want
something to render first to show
the users that I'm in a loading
state at this moment in time.
Go out and
grab the things from the API, and
then render to the user
what they want to see.
Does that make sense?
So what we're going to do
is say component did mount.
This is called a life cycle method.
So every React component has
a full life cycle, right?
It's going to start up and it's going
to run the constructer first, right?
Because that's what's gonna get called
as soon as something that is created.
After that, it's gonna call something
that's called component will amount.
That's about to go into the DOM.
That one's supposedly gonna be deprecated
some time in the near future because it's
actually not really that useful.
You're not gonna call things typically
before something that's rendered.
But the one that you're
gonna call all the time,
this one is by far the most useful one,
is component did mount.
ComponentDidMount means I've
rendered to the DOM for
the first time, now I'm ready to go out
and do things like buy into DOM element
if you're integrating like jQuery and
React together, or D3 and React together.
Or I'm gonna go make calls to the API.
Or I'm gonna fire things to the analytics.
All these kinda things, that's gonna
happen here in component, in Node.
So keep that in mind.
It renders to the DOM first.
It's visible now, and then it's gonna
call component did mount, okay?
And it gets called once.
>> Brian Holt: Once per component, right?
So if I have a component did mount here in
Pet, each one of these pets component did
mount is going to get run individually for
each component.
Does this make sense?
Okay, so as soon as this mounts,
I'm gonna say
petfinder.breed.list({animal,
>> Brian Holt: Colon dog.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, this returns
a promise, which is a JavaScript type.
It's a object that represents a future
value that's going to be coming, right?
So this obviously takes
time to go out to the API,
get the list of breeds for
dogs, and come back.
So what this returns is a promise.
So if I say const promise equals this.
Now, this promise, you can even see here,
>> Brian Holt: It's not saying.
But this returns a promise to you.
And then now, I can come down here,
promise.then.
So basically, it says, as soon as this
comes back, then run this function.
So I'm gonna get back data.
>> Brian Holt: And actually,
all I want it to do is, if it works,
call console.log with whatever it got.
>> Brian Holt: And if it fails,
then call console.error.
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna give you
an eslint error because you shouldn't ship
consoles.log statements, right?
But we'll remove that here in a second.
>> Brian Holt: We'll
have const promise here.
This is gonna be the result
of petfinder.breed.list.
This is gonna be called
with these credentials,
which the Petfinder client is doing.
And then here, if it's successful,
it'll call console.log with whatever
data we got back from the API.
And if there's an error,
it'll come back like this.
Fair warning, the Petfinder API
is XML-based, which is then being
translated into JSON, which is why it's
a little silly on how it does things.
So we're gonna have to do
a fair amount of checking,
just because the API is a little insane.
But it's all on the name
of seeing cute animals.
So I think we're all prepared for
this, right?
I am.
>> Brian Holt: So if we refresh
the page here, and look here,
you'll see this object in your console.
So you'll see petfinder and
then breeds, right?
And if I look in here, you'll see that
it gives me back 249 breeds of dogs.
So you can look here and
see English Bulldog,
Dutch Shepherd, a.
Just kidding.
So things of that sort.
So that's how this API library works.
And that's also how
component did mount works.
There are more lifecycle methods that
we'll kind of get to as we keep going,
but component did mount will be the one
that you will use by far the most.
>> Speaker 2: Hey, Brian,
before we get to that,
it sounds like some people in
Chrome are getting a cores error.
>> Speaker 3: I was getting that
before I restarted my server.
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
the moral of the story is restart your
server if you're getting a cores error.
>> Brian Holt: So if you're not familiar,
you hit Ctrl+C here.
It'll stop your server,
and then you do again.
>> Brian Holt: Now, if you refresh
the page, you should see it.